[serve.llm][docs] Documentation for prefix cache-aware router (#55218)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/serve/advanced-guides/prefix-aware-request-router.md

:end-before: __end_on_request_routed__
:language: python
:caption: prefix_aware_router.py
```

When a replica dies, the `on_replica_actor_died` callback is used to remove its entries from the shared prefix tree:
```{literalinclude} ../../../../python/ray/llm/_internal/serve/request_router/prefix_aware/prefix_aware_router.py
:start-after: __begin_on_replica_actor_died__
:end-before: __end_on_replica_actor_died__
:language: python
:caption: prefix_aware_router.py
```

(mixin-components)=
## Mixin Components

The `PrefixCacheAffinityRouter` inherits from two mixins. For more details about these and other available mixins, see {ref}`utility-mixin`. These mixins are used to optimize the list of candidate replicas against which to calculate prefix cache hit rate.

The [`LocalityMixin`](../api/doc/ray.serve.request_router.LocalityMixin.rst) provides locality-aware routing to optimize network latency by preferring replicas on the same node. The [`MultiplexMixin`](../api/doc/ray.serve.request_router.MultiplexMixin.rst) enables model multiplexing support by tracking which models are loaded on each replica and routing requests to replicas that already have the requested model in memory.

> ## Configuration Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configuration parameters
```

The `PrefixCacheAffinityRouter` provides several configuration parameters to tune its behavior:

### Core Routing Parameters

- **`imbalanced_threshold`** (default: 10): Queue length difference threshold for considering load balanced. Lower values prioritize load balancing over cache locality.

- **`match_rate_threshold`** (default: 0.1): Minimum prefix match rate (0.0-1.0) required to use prefix cache-aware routing. Higher values require stronger prefix matches before routing for cache locality.

> ### Memory Management Parameters

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Memory management parameters
```

- **`do_eviction`** (default: False): Enable automatic eviction of old prefix tree entries to approximate the LLM engine's eviction policy.

> - **`eviction_threshold_chars`** (default: 400,000): Maximum number of characters in the prefix tree before eviction is triggered.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`eviction_threshold_chars`** (default: 400,000): Maximum number of characters in the prefix tree before the LLM engine triggers an eviction.
```

- **`eviction_target_chars`** (default: 360,000): Target number of characters to reduce the prefix tree to during eviction.

> - **`eviction_interval_secs`** (default: 10): Interval in seconds between eviction checks when eviction is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **`eviction_interval_secs`** (default: 10): Interval in seconds between eviction checks for when eviction is enabled.
```

(deploy-llm-with-prefix-aware-router)=

> ## Deploying LLM Applications with Prefix Cache-Aware Routing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Deploying LLM applications with Prefix Cache-Aware Routing
```

> Here's how to deploy an LLM application using the prefix cache-aware request router:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deploy an LLM application using the prefix cache-aware request router as follows:
```

### Core Routing Parameters

- **`imbalanced_threshold`** (default: 10): Queue length difference threshold for considering load balanced. Lower values prioritize load balancing over cache locality.

- **`match_rate_threshold`** (default: 0.1): Minimum prefix match rate (0.0-1.0) required to use prefix cache-aware routing. Higher values require stronger prefix matches before routing for cache locality.

### Memory Management Parameters

- **`do_eviction`** (default: False): Enable automatic eviction of old prefix tree entries to prevent memory growth.

- **`eviction_threshold_chars`** (default: 400,000): Maximum number of characters in the prefix tree before eviction is triggered.

- **`eviction_target_chars`** (default: 360,000): Target number of characters to reduce the prefix tree to during eviction.

- **`eviction_interval_secs`** (default: 10): Interval in seconds between eviction checks when eviction is enabled.

(deploy-llm-with-prefix-aware-router)=
## Deploying LLM Applications with Prefix Cache-Aware Routing

Here's how to deploy an LLM application using the prefix cache-aware request router:

```python
import ray
from ray import serve

> from ray.llm._internal.serve.request_router.prefix_aware.prefix_aware_router import (

Reviewer 2: Have you considered exposing this from a public module that is not `_internal`? If you keep the `_internal`, when you stabilize the API, you will have no choice but to move it. If you already put it at a location that might be stable, you might be able to keep it. One reasonable choice would be `from ray.serve.llm.routers import PrefixAwarePow2ReplicaRouter`. It might also make it more likely for people to adopt this feature.

Reviewer 2: Thanks, great to hear :)
